.Enticott , Ogloff , Bradshaw(2006) Swann et al. (2002) also found that, in an adult sample with a very similar sample size (n = 32) to that in the current study, motor disinhibition showed weak to moderate (significant) correlations with non-planning and overall impulsiveness on the BIS-11. These significant findings are somewhat supportive of Nigg’s (2000) framework; he suggests a relationship between executive inhibitory control and the personality dimension constraint (similar in some respects to the BIS-11), but notes that further examination of personality dimensions is necessary. In addition, we did not assess ethnicity or socioeconomic status in our participants, and the possible influence of these variables in not known.

The reliability of the inhibition measures may be questioned, as may the validity of the BIS-11; while popular, the BIS-11 is limited by self-report, and does not incorporate all aspects of impulsivity as it is currently defined. Thus, it cannot be considered a definitive measure of impulsivity. Finally, these findings reveal associations between impulsivity and inhibition in a neutral environment. It remains, however, that we know little about inhibition under conditions of stress and cognitive load. That is, under conditions of stress and load, high impulsive individuals may be more susceptible to inhibitory dyscontrol, but not in the comparatively neutral environment of experimentation. This may account for some of the low correlations observed. Further investigations might aim to gauge the relationship between inhibition and impulsivity under conditions of cognitive or emotional load.

This study also provides preliminary support for the use of Stroop and motor inhibition tasks as laboratory measures of impulsivity, particularly where subjective measures are inappropriate (e.g., lesion patients who have difficulty self-reporting impulsivity). It will be important in the future to investigate the association between these inhibition tasks and other impulsivity measures, and to examine these associations in specific clinical groups.
