Introduction

 Theorists have had some difficulty defining what is meant by “impulsivity.” Based on common parlance, a high level of impulsivity has been equated with an inability to stop oneself performing some behavior with negative consequences, preferences for immediate over delayed gratification, a tendency to engage in risky behaviors, and the desire to seek out novel sensations Ιmpulsivity can defined as: (a) an inability to inhibit behavior 
(b) a preference for immediate over delayed rewards even when the immediate reward is somewhat smaller than the delayed reward (delay discounting or delay aversion) (Mitchell, 2004; d e Wit, 2008). It has been observed that impulsive (vs. non-impulsive) people tend to have difficulties inhibiting an incipient response. They are also faster in their responses, at least under certain task conditions and they make more errors (Kirkeby, Robinson, 2005).
Theorists believe that all these characteristics are associated with inhibitory control.
Inhibitory control concerns the suppression of an explicit or implicit response.
Executive inhibition includes interference control, cognitive inhibition, and behavioral inhibition. (Robinson, Eagle, Economidou, Theobald, Mar, Murphy, Robbins, & Dalley, 2009). This relationship can be explained by several explanatory models, the most common of which maintains that inhibitory control provides a delay in which executive functions can operate effectively (Enticott, Ogloff, & Bradshaw, 2006).
The most commonly used behavioral measures of impulsivity are delay discounting(DD), which assesses impulsive decision-making, and behavioral-inhibition tasks and go/ no go tasks (de Wit, 2008). 
  The go/no-go task has been used to measure inhibitory control (Perry, & Carroll, 2008). Early work in nonhuman primates suggested that the lateral prefrontal cortex (PFC) had an especially important role in the control of Go/NoGo responding   although the orbitofrontal cortex has also classically been related to disinhibition (Dalley, Everitt, & Robbin, 2011).There is some face validity to the idea that impulsive individuals may require more time to stop themselves from performing a behavior once that behavior has been initiated (Mitchell, 2004). 
Results traditionally suggest that personality measures of impulsivity inter-correlate well, but poorly with measures of inhibitory control. By contrast, a small number of recent investigations suggest that inhibition and personality based impulsivity may be (negatively) related (Enticott, Ogloff, & Bradshaw, 2006).
The current study was designed as a preliminary investigation of the relationship between s laboratory measures of inhibition (The simple Reaction Time task) and a popular self-report measure of impulsivity (BIS 11 Survey- Barrat Impulsivity Survey 11) in a normal adult population. This would allow us to determine whether there is evidence to suggest that  inhibitory control is associated with personality-based impulsivity in a non-clinical adult sample. (Enticott, Ogloff, & Bradshaw, 2006).




.



References
Dalley, J.W., Everitt, B.J., & Robbins, T.W. (2011) Impulsivity, Compulsivity, and Comp- Down Cognitive control. Neuron, 69:680-694.
Enticott, P.G., Ogloff, J.R.P., & Bradshaw, J. L. (2006). Associations between laboratory measures of executive inhibitory control and self- reportd impulsivity. Personality and Individual Differences, 41:285-294. 
Kirkeby, B.S., & Robinson, M.D. (2005). Impulsive Behavior and stimulus- response variability in choice reaction time. Journal of Research in Personality, 39: 263-277. 
Mitchell, S.H. (2004). Measuring Impulsivity and Modeling Its Association With Cigarette Smoking. Behavioral and Cognitive Neuroscience Reviews, 3:261–75.
Perry, J.L., &  Carroll , M.E. (2008). The Role of Impulsive Behavior in Drug Abuse. Psychopharmacology, 200:1–26. 
Robinson, E.S.J., Eagle, D.M., Economidou, D., Theobald, D.E.H., Mar, A.C., Murphy, E.R., Robbins, T.W., & Dalley, J.W. (2009). Behavioural charactirisation of high impulsivity on the 5- choice reaction time task: Specific deficits in waiting versus stopping. Behavioural Brain Research, 196: 310-316.
De Wit, H. (2009). Impulsivity as a Determinant and Consequence of  Drug Use: A Review of Underlying Processes: Impulsivity and Drug Use. Addiction Biology, 14:22–31. 
