Method
Participants
13 (3 men and 10 women) undergraduate psychology students of both Aristotle University of Thessaloniki and of University of Crete participated in the experiment without any reward. The participants were all attending the class “"an introduction to digital open research in clinical psychology”. All the participants were between 20 -23 years old. 

Materials
We used our materials from the Experiment Factory. So the access to them was open.
Impulsivity: 
In order to assess impulsivity, we used The Barratt Impulsiveness Scale (BIS-11; Patton et al., 1995). BIS-11 is a self report questionnaire that is designed to assess the personality/ behavioral aspect of impulsiveness. It is the most widely cited instrument for the assessment of impulsiveness and has been used to advance our understanding of this construct and its relationship to other clinical phenomena for 50 years (“BISS 11,” n.d.) The items of the questionnaire are scored on a 4-point Likert scale (rarely/never = 1, occasionally=2, often=3, almost always/always=4). The scale measurers attentional, motor and no planning impulsiveness and every item corresponds to one of these three subscales. As we examine simple reaction time we are mostly going to need from the 30 items those who are referred to Motor factors. The higher the summed score for the items the higher the level of impulsiveness. We also measured the reliability of the BIS-11 using Cronbach’s a. The results showed us that the survey we used indeed measures what it is supposed to measure, to the point of .908. To put it more specifically it is the appropriate survey to use to test our hypothesis.
Reaction Time
In order to assess the reaction time of the participants we used the Simple Reaction Time task. In this task the participant has to wait until he sees a black X on the white square on screen. When that happens he must press as soon as he can the space bar. Thus there is one stimulus (black cross) and one response (pressing the spacebar). As we examine simple reaction time we are mostly going to need from the 30 items those who are referred to Motor factors. The higher the summed score for the items the higher the level of impulsiveness.


Procedure
The participants asked firstly during class to take part in an experiment that concerns if there is a correlation between impulsivity and reaction time. After they agreed to take part in the experiment we sent to all of them an email inviting them to participate in our study. The email sent included the links to the questionnaire and the experiment. The experiment took place online. Each participant then completed first the simple reaction time task, which takes approximately eight minutes. There were two short breaks during the test. After completing this task, they were asked to complete the “Barratt Impulsivity Survey 11: The Barratt Impulsiveness Scale., a self-report questionnaire. 
